[whimsical music playing]
It's '80s Week,
but don't take my word for it.
[imitating E.T.] E.T. bake cake.
Welcome to The Great British Baking Show.
[Noel imitating E.T.] Hollywood.
[Matt] Now, '80s Week.
I do remember enjoying
a bit of Depeche Mode.
-[Matt] Serving up quiches…
-Come on.
-[Matt] …doughnuts…
-[Noel] Wow.
Sexy. [chuckles]
[Matt] …and ice cream cakes.
Making ice cream
on an increasingly hot day.
[Matt] As temperatures soar,
who will make it to the quarter final?
[Lottie] You're joking me.
[Matt] And who will have a meltdown?
[Laura] Oh, no!
It's just melting, isn't it?
Wow, we just went from bad to worse.
[opening theme music playing]
[Hermine] 1980s Week.
Very excited.
[Marc] I do remember the 1980s.
I was a teenager.
I learned to drive. They were good times.
[Laura] I had an '80s-themed
night out for my 30th.
Full of neon and, er…
[chuckling]
Oops-Upside-Your-Head-ing on the floor.
1980s food, I'm thinking cake with
lots of ruffled piped icing over it.
Prawn cocktails. Gross. [chuckles]
I feel like it was all about, like,
frozen packet meals, but…
[inhales deeply]
maybe today I'll be proved wrong.
Good morning and welcome back to the tent.
It's '80s Week.
I love the '80s, it's such a cool decade.
Jean-Michel Basquiat,
Keith Haring, Grace Jones.
Yeah. Brookside, Right to Reply,
the emergence of Carol Vorderman.
Really edgy.
[Matt and Noel laugh]
Today, the judges would like you to make
eight individual quiches
consisting of two different
savoury flavours.
[Matt] Your quiches should be made
with a shortcrust pastry
and filled with a savoury custard base.
-They must be served out of their tins.
-[Matt] Yeah.
If we see a quiche in a tin,
we're gonna be very upset.
We will unleash some fury.
You're gonna move
to another planet, you said.
-I will burn the tent down.
-[Matt] Yeah.
You have two hours.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake.
[Laura] Mmm. Quiche.
I love a quiche, yeah.
I mean, who doesn't love a quiche?
I can't remember eating quiche in
the 1980s 'cause I was two years old.
[Peter] Born two decades after, in 2000,
1980s, just after medieval history
at school, you know. [chuckles]
[Paul] It's '80s Week so it's my week.
I'm still an '80s boy at heart,
always will be.
Best time. Best time ever.
[Prue] We've asked for that
absolute classic '80s quiche,
and I remember quiche as quiche Lorraine
which is the one with
bacon, onion, and cheese,
but we're not really asking
to do '80s flavours.
Hope they'll do something
more modern than that.
I'm looking for a beautifully crispy base,
creamy interior, full of great flavours.
It's really hot in the tent today,
so actually,
the bakers have to concentrate
on what they're doing.
How you doin', Lottie?
I'm very warm.
Apart from that?
-Hello, Peter.
-Good morning.
[Prue] Tell us about your quiche.
So, for my quiches today,
I'm making a Southeast-Asian-inspired
coconut curry quiche.
So, I've got some crab meat through that.
-[Prue] Oh. Wow.
-[Paul] Oh, wow, okay.
[Noel] Peter's pairing
his Thai curry quiche
with a less spicy offering,
salmon, asparagus and capers.
[Paul] It's different, the Thai-style one.
-It was not around in the '80s.
-It was.
-That's just when it came in.
-You were in a posh area, right?
Of course I was.
-[Paul] But it wasn't--
-[Noel laughing] "Of course I was."
-[all laugh]
-Goodness' sake.
[Matt] Peter's not the only baker
giving the quiche a kick.
[Laura] This is Calabrian sausage.
I use it a lot on pizzas,
but it's really delicious.
It's quite fiery.
[Matt] Laura's contrasting her fiery
sausage quiche with a lighter addition,
goat's cheese, pea and asparagus.
How old were you in the '80s?
-Like, two?
-One.
-[both laugh]
We had all sorts. Rubik's Cube, E.T.
You kids don't know you were born.
-Oh, I love E.T.
-Your Tinder and Love Island.
Now, if you couldn't phone home,
people'd go, "'Phone home'?"
-E.T. would have a mobile.
-He would.
He'd swipe like that
with his big, long finger.
-He'd do a Zoom.
-[laughs]
Grindr.
[both laugh]
E.T.'s definitely on Grindr.
So, just working on my pastry,
egg, flour, and the butter.
[Noel] The bakers have been asked
to produce shortcrust pastry.
For the pastry, I really want it
to be nice and crisp
and have a relatively short texture,
so it's a bit crumbly.
So I'm just gonna just chill it down.
[Noel] To pull it off,
the first port of call is the fridge.
I need to cool them before they go in
'cause the butter will come out otherwise.
[Noel] But getting it
cool enough is no mean feat…
Pastry does not like heat.
Don't want it to be too warm…
[Noel] …in a timed challenge
and summer heat.
Freezer, actually.
[Hermine] Freezer.
[Laura] I put it in the freezer,
which I wouldn't normally,
but it's so hot.
It's like Satan's kitchen
in here. [chuckles]
That fish is quite strong.
-It's strong fish, yeah.
-Yeah.
That's quite a strong food
to be cooking on a hot day.
It's gonna be a Cornish-inspired quiche.
So, fish that could
be caught from Cornwall.
[Noel] Inspired by his hometown,
Marc's quiches pair cod with Cornish Blue,
and smoked haddock with cheddar.
-[Matt] What '80s music do you like?
-[Marc] Transvision Vamp.
-Transvision Vamp?
-What's the name, Altered Images,
-uh, Clare Grogan.
-Clare Grogan, from Altered Images.
-They were good times.
-Yeah.
Late '80s, it just dipped, didn't it?
-It did.
-It just dipped.
-It's never recovered.
-I don't think it has.
-Maybe we're just getting old.
-I think both.
[Matt] Forty-five minutes in…
-Hot. Hot.
-[Lottie] Yeah.
So hot.
[Matt] …and the temperatures
reach 28 degrees.
Hottest day of the year,
and we're working with pastry,
but just now need to roll out.
[Matt] The pastry must be rolled out fast.
[Marc] Heat makes it soft
and a bit sticky,
so yeah, try to work as quick as possible.
[Matt] Handle it
for too long, the fat will melt,
making it harder to shape.
[Laura] It's really sticky.
Ugh, come on!
Cool them down.
They're hotter than I am.
[Marc] All right, in we go.
Twenty-two minutes.
[Peter] Baking beans weigh it down,
and it's gonna blind-bake.
That'll hopefully provide a barrier
and prevent the infamous soggy bottom.
[Matt] But Hermine isn't ready
to blind-bake her pastry just yet.
I'm just a bit behind, but, hey,
I'm gonna cook like home.
I'm gonna cook the fill.
I don't cook by time, you see.
I love cooking.
I probably love cooking
more than I love baking.
[laughs]
[Matt] She's showcasing
classic flavour combos
with her painstakingly prepared recipes.
True to form, she's adding
some je ne sais quoi
with Gruyère cheese and French mustard.
Do you miss France?
Yes.
-The food.
We got the food, then we got the booze,
then the cheese,
and then we've got my family.
[laughs]
If you're watching this in France,
number four.
They'll all disown me now.
[both laugh]
Bakers, you have one hour left.
[both slurping]
[both exhale sharply]
[softly] Oh, dear.
-Warm though, innit?
-[chuckling] Yeah.
Ugh, so hot.
[groans]
[Noel] But scorching heat
isn't a concern for everyone.
[Hermine] My pastry is frozen.
This is not good. This is not good.
They're too hard.
I left them too long in the freezer.
[Noel] While Hermine's
forced to rescue her pastry,
the others move on to
the final part of the quiche.
Doing a custard.
This is coconut cream
that I'm gonna be adding.
I want the custard to be interesting.
[Noel] When it comes
to making custard interesting…
Dave's going all out.
I'm doing my interpretation
of an English breakfast,
so scrambled egg with a custard base.
Right.
That's interesting that you're doing
scrambled egg in an egg custard.
-[Dave] Yeah.
-That's brave.
-Could just be like scrambled custard.
-Yeah.
[Noel] Dave's English breakfast
features scrambled egg,
hash browns and sausage mince.
Even his pastry will be spiced
like a Cumberland.
It'll be paired with another
novel quiche - beef and avocado.
I think it's very original.
'Cause one's English breakfast,
one's avocado and beef.
[Paul] Okay.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you.
Erm, yeah, I think
they thought it was unusual,
but I like the idea of it.
[timer beeping]
[Matt] An English breakfast quiche
may not be that unusual after all.
[Lottie] So, I am making a full English.
Obviously, my really,
really great original idea
has been stolen
by another baker in the tent.
So, Dave is also doing a full English.
But I tasted his
and I don't think it's a full English.
I think it's mainly sausage.
[Matt] Lottie's putting
just a smattering of sausage in hers,
along with black pudding and baked beans.
For contrast, her second
will be flavoured like a salad.
That looks nice. [laughing]
Yeah, those are my baked beans.
That's what I brought to the party.
[Noel] Mmm, can't wait
to try these… things.
Gross!
So, I've got all things nice,
and she's got
-what normally gets left over.
-[chuckles]
[Matt] Just 45 minutes remain.
[exclaims and chuckles] It's so hot.
I'm… I'm behind.
This is painful.
Blind-bake now. [sighs]
[Matt] For those who
have blind-baked their pastry…
[Marc] I'll chuck it all together.
My mind's going, "Bing! Bing! Bing!"
to all these different places.
[Matt] …construction can commence.
[Peter] This is the coconut curry.
Fingers crossed they will like
my inventions. [chuckles]
[Paul] What do you think, Prue?
Erm, we do ask them to be original.
But my instinctive reaction
to scrambled egg cooking in the custard
is that it won't work.
Right, beans.
[Prue] Lottie's including baked beans.
I hate baked beans.
-We've gotta be open minded.
-[Prue] Exactly.
We've got to taste it
as if we had no prejudices at all.
-But we do.
-[chuckles]
No going back now.
-Bakers! You have half an hour left.
-[Dave] Really?
[Hermine] Really, really behind.
[chuckles]
[Lottie] It's so hot.
Crazy, innit? Cooking on
the hottest day of the year.
Ugh! Just got flour in my face.
[Peter] They'll go into the oven
for about 15 minutes.
You want a gentle wobble,
but we don't want a splodge on the plate.
[sighs] Trying to rush now.
-Not good?
-[Hermine] Nah.
-Why?
-[Hermine] They won't cook in time.
Do you know how you can make up that time?
-No.
-Doing this.
[laughs]
I'm already doing that.
[Dave] Come on.
Living the dream.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
Oh, there he is.
[Laura] Oh, God.
[winces]
[Lottie] Salad quiche.
-[Hermine] Come on.
-[Laura] Do you want some help?
Just ten minutes.
They're never gonna cook like that.
-[Hermine] I've put them at the highest.
-That should do it.
[Hermine] Yeah. Okay.
-[Dave] Don't worry, Hermine.
-[Hermine groans]
So my bacon is pretty crispy.
Luckily, it's just for decoration.
Is that burnt, Lot?
Yeah, that is burnt, yeah.
That is some burnt bacon.
-Brilliant.
-[Lottie laughing]
-[Matt] One minute left.
-It's not long enough. We know that.
We haven't got any time.
[laughs sarcastically]
[Hermine] God, they look ugly.
So not good.
-[Dave] Come on.
-[exclaiming]
Bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
[Laura] Well done. They look great.
-[sighs]
-[Laura] They're cooked.
[Noel] The bakers' quiches will now face
the judgement of Paul and Prue.
-Hello, Lottie.
-Hello.
Hi, Lottie.
-They're very neat.
-Yeah.
They're perfectly cooked underneath.
Nice and thin.
So, my first quiche
is goat's cheese, beetroot and some thyme.
Lovely short pastry.
[Paul] The beetroot and the goat's cheese
with that beautiful,
buttery, crumbly base is delicious.
-Good.
-[Prue] Right. Breakfast.
This is one
where I have to put my prejudices aside.
I really don't like baked beans.
What I'm mostly getting is black pudding,
which I like.
Glad to say
I can hardly taste the baked beans.
Yeah, I didn't get
the baked beans, which is good.
They don't add
anything to the look either.
-No.
-But the pastry is the king in that.
-The pastry is very, very good.
-Thank you.
[Dave] So, the first one,
there's bird's eye chilli, avocado,
and top-sirloin beef.
You like bird's eye chilli?
I like Birds Eye Chicken Dippers.
[chuckling]
Sorry if it's making you more hot.
The paprika in this one,
-and cayenne, just overwhelm.
-Yeah.
-[Prue] Heavy on the spices.
-[Dave] Yeah.
-[Prue] Let's try that one.
-[Paul] Let's have breakfast.
-There is egg in there.
-Yeah.
I don't know if
that's the scrambled egg or the custard.
I like the idea of the spices
in the pastry to act like a sausage.
But I think it's ruined it,
it's too strong.
-It does taste like a sausage breakfast.
-[Paul] It does.
Remind us of the flavours again?
That is the smoked haddock.
The fish is delicious.
But more importantly,
the crumbliness and the butteriness
of your pastry is very, very good.
And your other, the cod is beautiful.
My only complaint is
that if you were at a party
and you had these as a choice,
they're too similar.
Yeah, yeah.
[Paul] Bit of leakage going on
with the chorizo.
I'm sorry, that's not happened before.
-Pastry's a little tough.
-Oh, okay.
However, I like a bit of spice.
The flavour's lovely.
[Paul] Asparagus and pea.
You've given it a nice,
delicate hint with the mint.
-Delicious.
-Lovely, thank you.
[Prue] These look so pretty, Peter.
Okay, let's have a look
at the Thai-inspired one.
[Peter] Yeah.
-[Prue] Very nicely cooked pastry.
-[Paul] Mmm.
I think the chilli
slightly overwhelms the fish.
'Cause crab is so delicate.
[Paul] But the wholemeal one,
it works beautifully with the salmon.
-Excellent.
-[Paul] Mmm.
-Thank you.
[Prue] The pastry right in the middle
is a little undercooked.
I was a bit short on time.
But, actually, you've got the texture.
Holds well.
-Run through the ingredients again.
-It's shiitake mushroom and, er, spinach.
-I love that.
-Delicious.
It's such a classic combination.
And such a good one.
[exhales]
Your other… The salmon
and the leek is absolutely delicious.
-[Prue] Isn't it?
-It's creamy, the salmon's delicious,
it's buttery in the pastry.
-It's absolutely gorgeous, isn't it?
-[Prue] Mmm.
-Well done.
-Thank you, I wasn't expecting that.
I can't believe their comments.
I genuinely felt
I've booked my ticket home.
And I just saw Paul taking
one of my quiches for lunch,
and I can't believe he did that.
[Dave] I could be towards the bottom
because my flavours weren't great.
No, I won't be making
quiches any time soon.
It's just… It's not me.
Technicals are something I quite enjoy,
as long as it's not 40 degrees.
[Noel] As afternoon temperatures rise,
the bakers are facing
a gingham-covered mystery.
Good afternoon, bakers.
Welcome back to the hottest tent
in the history of the world.
-It's fine.
-For your technical challenge,
which today, has been set
by judge Paul Hollywood.
Judge Paul Hollywood, any words of advice?
This is a classic.
Watch the colour of the end product.
-That can't be it. Is that it?
-That's it.
Okay. As ever, this technical challenge
will be judged blind,
so we're gonna ask
these two beautiful people
-to slip away into the grass.
-[Matt] Bye-bye.
Judge Paul Hollywood would like you to
make six custard and jam finger doughnuts.
[Matt] Your digit doughnuts
should be fried to a golden colour,
and you have two hours and 45 minutes.
Okay, Matthew,
it's time for our magic words.
Yes. Izzy wizzy, let's get busy.
[Noel] Not those magic words.
They belong to Sooty.
-Our magic words.
-Oh, yeah.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake!
[Lottie sighs]
This one doesn't…
play to my strengths, I don't think.
Erm, I've never
deep fried anything before.
[Lottie] Right.
That scares the bejesus out of me.
Paul, this really reminds me
of the '80s. Finger doughnuts.
These were considered posher
than the round ones.
I grew up with these.
Used to be a Saturday lad
in my dad's business,
my first job was frying doughnuts.
Deep-frying in this heat.
They've gotta deep-fry
with the temperature around 160 degrees.
But the thing is,
we want it a golden-brown.
Any darker than this particular colour,
it starts to taste burnt.
[Prue] I don't think I've eaten
a finger doughnut since the '80s.
-They're whoppers these, aren't they?
-They are Paul Hollywood's fingers.
Delicious, Paul. Mmm.
I hope the weather plays
a fair game with the bakers today
in the tent,
'cause it is gonna be difficult.
[Dave] I'm probing the air.
So that's the temperature
of the room today.
This is 35.8.
-[exhales]
-On a hot summer's day,
I wanna get in that kitchen
and deep-fry stuff.
So, the first step is make the dough.
And then leave to rise.
Even the mixer is getting hot.
I know. I just felt mine.
You wanna do the window pane test.
See if you can see through it.
Like that.
It's still breaking, but it'll do.
I'm just gonna go
all machine for this dough.
In this heat, it's gonna be
quite sticky and difficult to work with.
Are you sweating?
-Yeah, I am.
-I'm really sweating.
-[chuckling]
-It's really hot in here, isn't it?
-But we've got these.
-We've got shammies around our necks.
-Yeah.
-Which just means that our necks are fine.
Yeah, but also wet.
-Wet.
-Yeah.
This is a most unflattering portrayal
of two essentially quite beautiful people.
[Peter] I'm gonna cover the dough
and let it prove.
I reckon, in this heat,
that's probably only gonna take
half an hour or so.
Needs to double in size.
I don't think there's any need
for a proving drawer on a day like today.
[Dave] I put it in the proving drawer.
Whether my dough's right,
only time will tell.
Just gonna chop the strawberries
into my jam sugar and make the jam.
Trying to bring that up to the boil.
Then I'll pass it through a sieve,
and leave it to cool.
What am I doing?
I'm making the mousseline now.
Crème mousseline is crème pat with butter.
[Peter] Whipping the cool-ish butter
and then I'll whip that
into the crème pat.
I really feel
like this is extreme baking today.
Like, insane amount of heat,
now it's really windy. I just feel like…
we should be getting
more out of this than some doughnuts.
-Hi, Noel.
-What's happening here? [chuckling]
-I'm dribbling.
-[Noel] It's '80s Week.
-How old are you? Fifty-one.
-[Noel] Forty-seven.
-No way.
-Way.
[Noel] Fashion stank, though, in the '80s.
-Shoulder pads…
-Yes.
-No.
-Leg warmers.
-Leg warmers were horrendous.
-Oh, leg warmers! Fame.
There was some cool stuff.
-The Cure, what a look.
-Yeah.
Back-combed hair and a big jumper.
You wear that for the rest of your life,
no one's ever gonna say anything.
It's nearly doubled.
We don't need the proving drawers today.
I don't think my dough's rising.
I've stuck it in the proving drawer
but a lot doubled at room temperature.
I'm gonna take it out anyway.
Fingers crossed I've done the dough.
This is the main part of it.
I'm supposed to divide the dough in six.
"Shape into a finger
15 centimetres in length."
[Marc] Isn't that long? [chuckles]
I don't think that's six inches.
Is it? Looks very large.
But it looks big enough,
is what I'm saying.
[Laura chuckles]
[Laura] I'm gonna leave those
to rise a bit.
It's a bit of a waiting game
at this point.
We just need some tunes.
[Matt] Peter,
what do you know about '80s music?
What about True by Spandau Ballet?
Do you know that one?
-Er…
-[Matt] He had a very thin microphone.
You know that song?
-I don't think I know.
-He doesn't know it.
I'm so old now. So old.
[Noel] Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
-True.
-[Lottie] It's so hot.
I'm very… I'm very wet. I'm very wet.
Wouldn't it be great?
35 degree conditions.
Get a deep-fat fryer going
and make doughnuts.
This is torture. Whose idea was this?
Do you wanna stand over a deep-fat fryer
in 35-degree heat?
I've got nothing else to do.
This is the first time
I've ever deep-fat fried.
And what a feeling it is.
Quite a rush. Quite a rush.
[Hermine] Quite happy to leave it
at that temperature
which is about 160.
[Dave] Frying these at 180.
Maybe that might be too hot,
'cause they shouldn't start
to look like that at 50 seconds.
Right, that's too dark.
There's no doubt that is golden-brown.
It's gone past the point of golden-brown.
They're more brown.
[Laura] If we cover them up in sugar…
it covers up the imperfections.
-[Noel] Lottie.
-[Lottie] I'm so hot.
[laughing] "I'm so hot."
-I'm really bad at heat.
-I'm not supposed to be in the daylight.
-[chuckling]
-This is a nightmare for me.
Do you know when I look best?
1:30 in the morning, in a nightclub.
That is when I'm at my most sexy!
So that's all… Ah! That's hot.
They need to cool down
because mousseline and heat, not friends.
[Laura] Right, this could all go
horribly wrong, but… Oh, yeah!
Up there for thinking,
down there for dancing.
Had a wee look around
and people are slicing from the top.
Other folk were around in the '80s,
so know what they should look like.
They look more like bread inside.
Definitely didn't leave 'em
to prove long enough.
[Noel] Who's the best piper?
-Peter--
-Peter Piper.
-Peter Piper. [chuckling]
-[laughing]
[Noel] And there we go.
-How much time, please?
-Bakers, one minute left!
[Dave] Unfortunately, this one…
[chuckles] …was cut wrong.
"Pipe a line of jam."
But a wiggly line is still a line.
Come on, Laura, precision.
-[Lottie] Come on.
-Lovely jubbly.
Okay, bakers, your time is up.
[exhales]
[sighs deeply]
This is embarrassing, this is.
This is embarrassing.
It's not a great look, is it, really?
Bring your finger doughnuts forward.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are
looking for six golden finger doughnuts
filled with crème mousseline
and finished
with a line of strawberry jam.
We'll start with these.
I like the colour of this one.
-[Prue] Yes.
-[Paul] But they're short.
Need to hang over the edge of the plate.
-[Prue] Yes.
-[Paul] Let's have a look.
[Prue] Mmm.
It's lovely.
It's baked well.
Okay, moving on to this one.
It's burnt in the, er, fryer.
It's underproved.
Erm, this one is a right mess.
Yeah, it's very doughy.
-It's tight on the inside.
-[Prue] Hmm.
So, overall, I mean,
it's the wrong colour, underproved.
Er, it didn't taste extremely good.
-Moving on.
-[Prue] These are the right colour.
Let's have a look at this one.
The crème mousseline looks good.
Nice and airy inside.
Mmm. The texture and flavour's good.
[Prue] It's delicious.
[Paul] Erm, moving on.
Little bit dark.
The colour and the basic shapes
needed to be more consistent.
And it is a little… tough.
[Paul] Next one. A bit
more consistent with the shapes.
The crème mousseline is a little bubbly.
I'm not even…
-Worried.
-Because of the weather.
Gonna forgive them.
-Yes.
-Okay. [chuckles]
-[Paul] It tastes good.
-[Prue] Delicious.
[Paul] Er, moving on to
the last one. A little bit messy.
Probably slightly over-fried as well.
Mmm.
The flavour's okay.
[Prue] The flavour's good.
It just doesn't look great.
[Matt] Paul and Prue will now
rank the doughnuts from worst to best.
[Prue] In sixth place,
we have this one here.
You know what happened.
[chuckling]
You overcooked them, basically.
In fifth spot is this one.
The actual shaping of it,
it was all over the place.
Slightly over-fried as well.
[Matt] In fourth place is Laura,
and Marc is third.
And in second place, there's this one.
Peter, they were really nice.
Just not all quite the same size.
Which says in 1st place,
we have this one. Hermine.
-Thank you.
-[all clapping]
The textures
and the flavours were spot on.
Thank you.
That's some turn of fate.
[laughing]
Well done.
I'm gonna have a nice, cold beer.
A well-deserved one.
[Lottie] I get it.
They're saying it's too dark,
but I just like a darker doughnut.
[Dave] I need to up my game for tomorrow.
If I can pull it off,
I can pull it off, if I can't, then…
it's my time.
[Matt] One challenge stands between
the bakers and the quarterfinal.
Yesterday was
the third-hottest day on record.
If I had hair,
it would have melted anyway.
[all chuckle]
The bakers did pretty well,
all things considered.
-Hermine's doing very, very well.
-[Prue] Isn't she?
[Paul] We've had
six Star Bakers which are all different.
We could go for
a seventh Star Baker if she does take it.
But I think, overall, Lottie, Laura
and Dave are in a little bit of trouble.
I agree, but we often think
that somebody is doomed, and they're not.
[Paul] The temperature
of the tent could rise a little bit today.
-Maybe not as high as yesterday.
-Oh, I hope not.
But I don't want the heat
to affect the showstopper today.
Anything could happen today.
It was crazy in the tent yesterday.
-[Matt] It was really weird.
-I had to peel my jeans off.
[Matt] Oh!
You peeling your jeans off…
-[chuckling]
-…is not what I want to think about.
[Matt] Good morning, bakers.
Welcome back to the tent
for your showstopper challenge.
Today, the Paul and the Prue
would like you each
to reimagine that '80s classic,
the ice cream cake.
[Noel] Your ice cream cake
must have at least one baked element,
but apart from that,
the flavours and style are up to you.
[Matt] You have four hours and 30 minutes.
Four hours and thir…
-That's ages. What'll we do?
-[Matt] I know.
I thought, as it's '80s Week,
we could go and hang out
in Rod and Emu's Pink Windmill.
Wow! That's a lovely idea.
Unfortunately, they've knocked it down.
-It's a JD Sports now.
-[Matt] That's a shame.
When you try on trainers, you say,
"Can I have that in a four?" They go…
[imitating Rod Hull]
"Somebody wants a four."
[both in unison] "Somebody wants a four."
Yeah, that joke
works better if you're over 45.
[chuckling] If you're under 45,
just carry on with TikTok.
-[Matt] Yeah.
-[Noel] Okay, bakers.
-On your marks…
-Get set…
Bake!
I'm feeling optimistic about this.
Erm, who knows what way it may go.
I love ice cream to…
too high of a degree.
[Laura] Nothing better than
a bucketful of ice cream, is there?
Apart from a bucketful of wine, anyway.
[Noel] From Viennettas
and Baked Alaskas to the Arctic roll,
the '80s were synonymous
with ice cream cakes.
Back then, 25 miles
of Arctic roll were sold every month.
Ice cream cake
was definitely a big deal in the '80s.
You would have it
for a birthday or a dinner party.
It was a lovely celebratory thing to do.
[Paul] It's gotta look amazing,
but when we put the knife through,
what we wanna see
is variety at different levels,
some baked, some ice cream,
all hold their shape and form throughout.
-Morning.
-[Peter] Morning.
So, tell us about
your showstopper ice cream cake.
So, for my ice cream cake, I'm gonna
make an ice cream Christmas cake.
Marzipan on top,
and then covered in hopefully
a thin layer of Italian meringue.
Wow.
[Matt] Peter's Christmas cake
is an ice cream surprise.
With the decoration, another illusion,
mini ice cream Christmas puddings.
That's freezing all right?
It does take longer to freeze,
as I've got a lot of brandy in it,
but it does freeze in time.
I think this sounds absolutely wonderful.
Why can't we have Christmas
in the middle of the summer?
Thank you.
[Noel] Peter might be
celebrating Christmas,
but Hermine's off on her summers hols.
Yeah, I'm bringing a bit of sunshine.
I could eat mangoes
for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
I just love them.
[Noel] She's enhancing
the tropical flavours of her cake
with a buttery shortbread from Brittany.
Welcome.
[in singsong voice]
Somebody did well in the technical.
-[both chuckling]
-How are you? How you gonna play it?
I'm playing it simple.
[Noel] Simple.
I've got you in a sweepstake.
If you don't win,
I lose my house, so no pressure.
Oh, no.
-I say house, it's a coffin.
-[both laugh]
[Laura] I'm just making
my ice cream. It's a custard base.
Milk, double cream,
egg yolks, and caster sugar.
If you can make a custard,
you can make an ice cream.
You can just shove it in the freezer.
[Matt] But rather than using the freezer,
today the bakers
have the luxury of ice cream makers.
This is a freezer,
but the paddle inside here…
just churns your custard round
and round and stops ice crystals.
So this makes it smooth.
[Matt] But how quickly the mixture cools
depends on the flavours they use.
[Peter] Alcohol, brandy,
high percentage, it doesn't freeze.
So I had to be careful when I was
putting it in not to be too generous.
This is honey and hazelnut.
[Matt] And when it
comes to adding extra liquid,
Marc is being more generous than most.
[Marc] I'm adding
pretty much a whole pot of honey.
It's gonna take a while to freeze.
[Matt] The honey ice cream
is just the start of his ambition.
Marc's adding four more different layers.
The exterior is just as intricate,
with a sponge resembling the stripy roof
of a retro ice cream parlour.
Yeah, it's almost got like an
ice-cream quality to it with the stripes.
What I do is spread this on here.
Tuile paste makes
the stripes in the joconde.
[Noel] While Marc's sponge
features delicate chocolate stripes,
over at Laura's…
[Laura] That is quite a lot of chocolate.
[chuckling]
[Noel] …there's chocolate everywhere.
Go big or go home. [chuckling]
It literally is death by chocolate.
[Noel] To balance the chocolate elements
in her Death by Chocolate cake,
Laura's making
a praline ice cream with meringue kisses.
[Laura] Wanna be my meringue guinea pig?
[chuckling] Oh!
-[exclaims]
-Bit more.
Luckily, you didn't get it on your head.
I don't mind having a whippy head.
We could blowtorch it,
and we could have some nice Italian
meringue blowtorched action. [chuckling]
Then I could dip you in some hazelnuts.
[chuckling]
This is like Prue Leith meets
Fifty Shades of Grey or something.
[laughs] Sorry.
[Matt] While Laura's opted
for decorative meringues,
Dave's finishing his cake
with something a little more novel.
[Dave] If you have a bad week
and you know it,
you need to pull it out of the bag.
So I wanna have
both ice creams on top… piped.
Only a small amount
to add that bit of decoration.
[Matt] His cake will be
flavoured like a tiramisu,
with coffee and almond ice creams
alternating both inside and on top.
-Piped ice cream on the top?
-I hope so.
That's risky.
It is risky.
First of all, you gotta be able
to pipe it, so it's gotta be soft.
Temperature in the tent will be warm,
so we're expecting puddles
-by the time it comes to us.
-[chuckles] No. He knows what he's doing.
-Good luck.
-[Dave] Thank you. Cheers.
[Matt] Decorating with
ice cream may be a risk…
-[both] Hello, Lottie.
-Hello.
[Matt] …but Lottie's
pushing the envelope even further.
So, I am coating
the entire thing in chocolate ice cream.
-All the way around.
-Wow.
To make it look like a cassette tape.
[Noel] Inside Lottie's cassette tape
will sit flavours
reminiscent of '80s birthday parties.
A layer of chocolate ice cream
will mirror the fragile shell.
When you look back at ice cream cakes,
normally they're surrounded
with something to protect them,
-i.e. sponge.
-Yeah.
But you've decided you're just
gonna put the ice cream on the outside.
-Yeah.
-Well, if it works, it'll be wonderful.
Should be a nice drink.
Yeah, bring your straws.
[laughing]
All right, Lottie, thank you.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Thanks, Lottie.
-Does sound nice, though.
-Thanks, Matt.
[Hermine] Looking around,
can't help being worried.
Mine is pretty simple, but we shall see.
[Noel] Wow. I like this.
Bit like an ice cream parlour,
isn't it, with the stripes?
-Had a jumper like that.
-[Marc] Did you?
It was a bit Debbie Harry, it was
a bit Sting. I'm gonna say early Sting.
-Not embarrassing Sting.
-[laughing]
-Not lute-playing Sting.
-Yeah.
[posh accent] Bakers,
you are halfway through.
-Beautiful.
-Thank you.
[Peter] Yes, the second one has churned.
[Matt] With all batches churned,
the ice creams
now require even more chilling.
[Lottie] So this is now
a soft-scoop ice cream,
but I need to freeze it more
to have a solid layer
for carving into later.
[Matt] In order to construct,
the temperature must be
lowered to minus-18 degrees.
I'll let that fully freeze,
plop them in and build it up that way.
I don't know what's going on.
Come on, ice cream.
[Matt] But Laura's brownie ice cream
isn't ready for the freezer just yet.
My ice cream
is taking way too long to churn.
We'll see… It's barely cold.
Oh, my God.
-You know what I've done, Lottie?
-What?
Didn't press the ice setting,
so it's just been sitting there
merrily churning
-with no cooling for about 40 minutes.
-[Lottie] Oh, no!
-[Laura] We're having fun.
-[Lottie] Sad.
[Laura] Would you like a kiss?
Thanks.
-That's amazing. Just serve that.
-[Laura] Nice?
Might have to, at this rate.
-[Noel] You all right?
-[Laura] D'you know what…
"Do you know what,
I've had a good time here, guys."
-"If I have to, if it's my time, I'll go."
-[laughing]
-Literally.
-I don't wanna hear that speech.
You're staying, missus.
The thing that makes the ice cream,
I forgot to press that button.
-Oh!
-Not actually churning.
-You might actually be going home.
-[laughs]
-'Cause you forgot to press a button.
-Wow. Thank you.
-Rubbish way to go home.
-Isn't it just?
[Noel] Three hours in…
[sighs]
[Noel] …and the chocolates, jellies…
[Lottie] Don't throw it at Peter.
That's mean.
-You love Peter a bit, don't you?
-[Lottie] Yeah.
[Noel] …and cakes are ready.
[Marc] This is the final sponge.
My ice cream, hopefully freezing.
[Noel] Construction can't start
without the ice creams.
[Marc] Still a bit soft in the middle.
[Noel] It's not all
the bakers have to contend with.
Making ice cream
on an increasingly hot day.
It's getting pretty, pretty warm.
Ice cream cake
in this crippling, oppressive heat.
Should be laws against that.
You see, this is why
I don't go out in the sun.
-Because I melt.
-[laughing] Wear a bikini.
I can't get into my bikini.
That's the problem.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
-How am I gonna get down?
-[all laughing]
[Laura] Churn done.
What could go wrong?
Let's pray to the ice cream gods
that it sets, shall we? Come on.
I just hope it sets.
My honey ice cream was taking ages to set.
It might be time to assemble,
but if I can't carve the chocolate…
I've got to do it.
-I've just scared myself talking.
-[Marc] I'm gonna go for it.
-[Matt] Heat is on.
-[Dave] Literally.
-Good luck.
-Literally and physically.
[Matt] The build is now
a race against the clock.
[groans] Trying to work fast.
Feeling hot already.
[Matt] Every second the ice creams
stay out of the freezer…
It does defrost or unset very quickly.
Oh, my God.
[Matt]
…increases the chance of collapse.
God, this stuff's melting so quick.
[sighs]
It's 'cause it's really hot.
I feel it now. It's definitely warming up.
I'm scared.
[Peter] Oh, dear. Brandy snap's splitting.
I think the heat
might be starting to get to me.
I'm so hot. [exhales]
Okay, concentrate, Lottie.
Ah! Biscuit.
[Laura] Come on, ice cream.
[Lottie] Blackberry layer quickly.
[Marc] Take every advantage
you can to get it cold.
Get it straight in the freezer again.
[Dave] My ice cream
takes so long to cool back down.
Keep it in the freezer now
until I need to use it.
[Noel] As most of the cakes
head into the chiller…
Laura's brownie ice cream is coming out.
[Laura] I'm gonna go for it.
Shouldn't add it in,
but haven't got time not to.
-Is it freezing, Laura?
-Not yet.
Very sticky. Come on.
Let's hope and pray.
[Marc] I hope everything sets,
'cause we'll have to decorate with
an ambient temperature of 35 degrees.
Fingers crossed.
It's gonna be tight.
[Lottie] I'd like to know
how badly it's gonna go.
[Laura] Everyone's in the same boat,
worried about things setting.
[Lottie] Peter isn't.
Peter's making holly.
-[Peter] I don't enjoy these.
-Just stop doing it, then.
-You wanna get into the final?
-Definitely.
I love that about you.
So competitive
and you don't even pretend to be cool.
He's the baby-faced assassin.
Lottie. "Lottie who?"
Lottie. [imitates kick]
Laura. [imitates punch]
And I love them all.
[Matt whispering gibberish]
-Bakers…
-[whispering gibberish]
-…you have 30 minutes…
[whispering continues]
…left.
-Getting warm.
-[Lottie] Yeah, very.
[Marc] Hopefully the cake holds together.
[Hermine] Let's try it.
[Noel] Prue and Paul are expecting
clean layers of perfectly set ice cream.
[Dave] It's so hot. It's melting
a lot quicker than I thought.
[Noel] Any leaks…
and it will ruin
the entire look of the cake.
This is the moment of truth.
Done. It's a very delicate cake.
[Marc] Fingers crossed this is gonna work.
[Hermine] Go on, go on, go on.
[Dave] Oh. Really fragile.
It melts straight away.
[sighs nervously]
[Laura] Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God.
Oh, sugar.
Worst case scenario.
[sighs] It's not set, is it?
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left,
Right.
It's too hot, innit?
[Laura] It's so hot. It's just melting.
It's gonna go, isn't it? [grunts]
Mine needs coating in ice cream,
I'm worried I'll go like that
and it'll splurge out the sides.
[Laura] What's happening?
I'm going home.
It's a mess.
Let's just get that abomination
back in for a bit.
[Dave blows raspberry]
Back in the freezer.
[Lottie] I've gotta do it now.
Got no time.
It's a really soft consistency
in order for me to spread it.
No, this isn't gonna work.
Oh! You're joking me.
As fast as I'm making it,
it's just melting.
I'm just scraping it up,
and it's just sliding down.
It's game over.
What a nightmare.
-I'm scared.
-[thud]
What was that?
Oh, no!
Oh, my God.
Wow. We just went from bad to worse.
Laura, does that make you feel better?
-Erm, no.
-No? It's dripping. Sure?
Little shells of shortbread.
So we just get this on.
I need to work quite fast before it melts.
Bakers, you have one minute left.
To do what?
Remake an entire ice cream cake?
Crazy fast now.
[Dave] Piping ice cream onto the top.
On this hot day, the ice cream,
it's gonna melt very fast.
[Laura] Ugh, we love a dramatic ending,
don't we?
[Lottie] I'm trying to draw
the cassette tape. Disaster.
[Laura] Come on.
Bakers, your time is up.
[sighs]
Please put your ice cream cakes
in your freezers.
I'm embarrassed about this one.
-Really?
-Yeah. Looks like a child's done it.
[Laura] We'll just close that.
Yeah. Goodbye.
-[Dave] Did you enjoy it?
-Did I enjoy that?
Well, that went really well.
It was exactly how I planned it.
It was brilliant.
[sighs and laughs]
Gotta laugh or cry.
Oh, my God. I can't look.
What a mess.
[Matt] It's judgment time
for the celebratory ice cream cakes.
Marc, would you like
to bring up your showstopper, please?
Considering that's an ice cream cake,
it's quite impressive.
Thank you.
Even if it wasn't an ice cream cake,
you'd say, "That's impressive."
[chuckles] It is very impressive.
-[Matt] Oh, look at that.
-[Prue] Wow. Look at that.
Yep.
Mmm. Mousse is lovely, but…
Both the ice creams are delicious…
-Bottom one's not quite set.
-I was struggling with the honey there.
You add something, so the freezing
will take a little bit longer.
-But very brave.
-It's so complicated.
There's so much happening,
-and you've pretty well done it.
-Thanks very much.
-Looks nice.
-I think it looks beautiful.
I love the way
you've done the ribbon. Very good.
[Paul] Let's have a look, shall we?
Nice, neat lines.
You can see the biscuit down the bottom.
It's akin to a shortbread.
I think that's beautiful.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] I think it's so well balanced
because I put both the mango
and the coconut flavours in together,
and I can taste both distinctly.
Really good.
The Breton is beautiful
because it's buttery
and you've got a really nice eat
that, it's simple…
but highly effective.
As always, you're doing classical things
very simply, but beautifully.
-Well done, Hermine.
-Thank you.
-Looks great. Clever.
-It looks absolutely fantastic.
I love the decoration.
[Paul] Let's have a look, shall we?
-He's really strongly, isn't he? Oh!
-[Prue laughing]
[Prue] Remind us about your flavour.
It's a Christmas cake.
A layer of Christmas cake ice cream
and a layer of brandy cream ice cream.
Peter, that is absolutely delicious.
And it's very clever
because you've managed to freeze that
with a lot of booze in it.
Your flavours are great
but the cake's pretty solid
because of the amount of fruit
that you put in there.
By the time that's soft enough to eat,
your ice cream will be melted.
[Prue] That's absolutely true.
-But it's lovely.
-Well done.
Thank you.
We did point out about the ice cream
being piped on as well on the top
is a risky thing to do.
It doesn't look the best.
These, I wouldn't have bothered with.
I just didn't wanna present
something too simple.
-That's what I didn't wanna do.
-[Prue] Let's have a look.
The textures are lovely.
Chocolate is nice and strong.
[Paul] Sponges are baked beautifully
as well.
It's akin to a tiramisu,
which is what you set out.
-It doesn't look the best.
-I know.
-But I like the flavour.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-So do I.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-[Prue] Very good.
-Cool.
-[Noel] Well done.
-Cheers, thank you.
Oh, I don't want to do it.
[Paul] Very underwhelmed.
Did you know all the way along
that it wasn't going to freeze?
I had my suspicions because
this cassette tape idea was fairly new.
Erm, so it had been in a square cake tin
for a long time.
But without that around it, it melted.
To be honest, I think the cassette tape
is a really witty and nice idea.
-But it's not an easy thing to model.
-[Lottie] No.
No, it's not. [chuckles]
-I did try and say this morning…
-You did try and say, yeah.
…it would never work
in this temperature.
-Is it gonna taste good?
-I really hope so.
[Prue laughs]
[Lottie] Hope there's ice cream
in there still.
[grunts softly]
-Did you lose a lot of it?
-[Lottie] Yeah.
[Prue] So that looks nice.
Chocolate ice cream is delicious.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Absolutely delicious.
Is that meant to be cherry ice cream?
It's blackberry. Yeah.
-I can't get any blackberry at all.
-Okay.
I think it looks terrible.
If it tasted good, then you
sort of hang something on that.
[Lottie] Yeah.
[Paul] But besides the puffed rice
down at the bottom…
just not getting anything from it at all.
Nothing.
It's a shame.
-The meringue kisses look nice.
-[chuckles]
Thanks, Paul. I'll take that.
It's all a bit of, er…
on a lean, isn't it?
Yeah. It's my fault. I had issues.
Didn't press the right button
on the old ice cream machine.
So I'm really, really sorry.
-What a pity.
-You've manage to create a cake.
The tempered chocolate lost all the shine.
It is melting down the side.
But it's what it tastes like, too.
I'm sorry.
[Prue] Remind us
what the baked element is.
[Laura] It's a chocolate sponge,
a brownie in the chocolate ice cream
as well,
then the meringue on top.
[Prue] Hmm.
I think the ice cream is delicious.
The praline, it's a lovely flavour.
Yeah, your ice creams are delicious.
Just not frozen.
The big issue I have is brownie.
Why would you put a brownie
in the freezer?
What's the key element
that you look for in a brownie?
It's fudgey.
You'll never get that in a million years
if you put it in the fridge.
-Okay.
-[Paul] But the flavours are nice.
It's a pity, Laura,
because you so nearly were there.
I know. I'm sorry. Thank you.
[Lottie] That could've been worse.
Mine, quite frankly, was an embarrassment.
I should have listened. I didn't.
I took a risk, it did not pay off.
[Laura] I mean,
it looked an absolute state.
Yeah. If I get through, it'll be
literally by the skin of my teeth.
So not quite as hot as yesterday.
Still warm.
Still a challenge to make ice cream.
Who do you think
really excelled themselves?
I thought Hermine's was very clean,
very tidy, very neat.
And beautifully made. Every element of it
was classic and perfect.
-I loved the mango.
-She's in line for Star Baker.
Yeah, she has to be. I think Hermine,
I would even say that Marc's pulled
himself up into a situation of Star Baker.
You were very, very impressed
when Marc presented his cake.
-[Prue] It was so ambitious.
-Who's at the bottom?
I actually think Dave's saved himself
today with that tiramisu cake.
I think it's Lottie or Laura.
Lottie's been quite erratic.
She's either brilliant…
-[Paul] Yeah.
-…or a bit chaotic.
And Laura's been in the bottom a lot.
She's… She's made a lot of mistakes.
Every showstopper,
she's fighting to stay in the competition.
She is. I think it's between
Lottie and Laura again.
Well, well done to you guys
for choosing an ice cream cake challenge
-in one of the hottest days--
-We didn't know that, did we?
-We didn't know that.
-You knew.
We don't have higher information.
That is not what the Daily Mail
are gonna say.
-They know. They know. Devious.
-[Noel chuckles]
Well done, bakers.
You've all worked very, very hard.
And now it's down to me
to say which one of you is Star Baker.
All of you have been Star Baker once,
except Hermine…
until now. Congratulations.
-Thank you.
-[all clapping]
-Well done.
Yay!
-Well deserved.
-Yeah.
Ah, that means I've got the horrible job
of announcing the person who's leaving us.
This gets tough. It does get tough
because you're all our little buddies now.
But…
the person who is going home today…
is…
Lottie.
-Aww. Cat Face.
-Don't be nice to me.
-[Marc] We know.
-[Noel] Why, Cat Face?
-[softly] Why?
-I had to.
-Who am I gonna muck about with now?
-[Lottie chuckles]
Just give me a minute. [crying]
It's just like a massive relief,
but also, like,
obviously, I'm gutted
to see everyone, like…
Not be with everyone every day.
Honestly, it's been amazing.
It has been amazing.
Can you stop crying please, Laura?
Thank you.
I think, mixed emotions
definitely right now.
Really happy I got through, but erm…
yeah, Lottie is a really good friend.
Beneath the sarcastic, tough exterior
is actually a really kind, really funny,
really lovely human being.
So yeah, I think at the moment,
I just feel a bit sad
that I've… I've lost Lottie.
-[Peter] I'll miss you.
-I'll miss you.
-[Peter] I'm sorry.
-[Lottie] We'll have a whisky tonight.
I literally packed two outfits.
And I'm here in week seven,
wearing everyone else's clothes.
I cannot believe the stuff that I've done.
I got a handshake, I got a Star Baker.
Like, I'm so chuffed with myself.
And maybe I can bake.
Maybe I can.
-[Prue] Hermine, well done.
-Thank you.
I was absolutely thrilled
that Hermine finally got Star Baker
because honestly, in a way,
she's deserved it
two or three times before,
but she's just been pipped
by a tiny margin.
Well done. I'll miss you, too.
[Hermine] It was a lovely thing to hear.
Cherry on the icing.
But as they always say,
keep my head on my shoulder
and keep going. [chuckles]
I know. Ooh!
Check you out! [chuckles]
-You all right?
-Yeah.
-Did you hear?
-Oh, you happy for me?
-Yeah.
Oh, lovely.
I'm proud of you.
Aw! [laughing]
[closing theme music playing]